
## Course Link

[Shell Workshop](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud206)

## Why Does Command Line Matter?

The command line is an alternative to the GUI based interface we are so used to. Although GUI interfaces are quite easy to use, they are not as flexible as the command line. Imagine copying a thousand files with a GUI. It would take a few clicks to select the files, some scrolling and some to and fro between the source and target directories. Doing the same thing from command line involves a fair bit of typing. So the command line approach may not seem a clear winner. Now consider renaming files in bulk or separating them based on their timestamps. It is tough to perform tasks like these from the GUI because GUIs are not programmable. With the command line you can combine multiple commands to, for example, find the timestamp, and copy the files based on the timestamps.

A good command line interface, like the Linux shell allows you to write scripts to automate tasks like these. In fact, the Linux shell comes with a long list of commands that can be composed to automate any task imaginable. This ability to build larger programs from smaller ones is what gives the command line its power and flexibility.

In this lesson you learn about some of the most useful commands and how to combine them into larger commands.

## Intro to the Shell

### Welcome to the Shell Workshop lesson

With this lesson, you start with the familiarization of one of the essential tools to become a Web developer.

During this lesson, we are going to provide in each concept a Workspace where you can experiment with the commands, but it is always good that you test those also in your computer locally.

### Learning Objectives

-   Recognize the importance of the Shell terminal for a Web Developer.
-   Operate with a Shell terminal using multiple commands.
-   Practice various commands to perform different operations like navigating directories, files organization, etc.

### Recommendation

The Shell commands can be installed or not on your computer if you are using Linux or Mac and you have issues running the commands check the documentation specifically for the Operating System.

-   [Linux](https://ss64.com/bash/)
-   [MACOS](https://github.com/0nn0/terminal-mac-cheatsheet)

### Definition 

(video)

> **Shell** is a command-line interface for running programs on our computer. You type commands at a prompt, and he Shell runs the program for you and shows you the output.

> The program that we use to interact with the Shell is called a **Terminal** program.

*The Unix system was originally designed in an era when the connections between computers and terminals were very slow, so making commands really short made it much faster to use. This is true not only for the shell, but also for other parts of the Unix system, such as the C programming language.*

User ~ Terminal ~ Bash Shell (which is by far the most popular UNIX-style shell)

## Navigating Directories (`ls`, `cd`, `pwd`)

### Commands:

-   `ls`: [List] List the files in the directory.
	- `ls` list the files in the current directory
	- `ls '[directory name]'` list the files in the defined directory
-   `cd`: [Change Directory] Move to a different directory.
	- `cd '[directory name]'`
	- `cd ..` if you want to go back a directory, you can do that with the special directory name dot dot, which is also called a **Parent Directory** (注意命令与两个点之间的空格)
-  The semi-conon `;` allows you to write two commands on the same line. The Shell will just run them in order. >> `cd Downloads;ls`
- `pwd`: [Print Working Directory] Sometimes you will get lost in many directories, with this command you can see where you are. The names of directories are separated by slashes. The Unix system uses the forward slash, not the blackslash, to separate the names of directories. This whole string, composed of several directory names spaperated by slashes, is called a **path**.
	- **Special Directory Names**
		- `..` parent directory
		- `.` current directory >> `ls .` is the same as `ls`
		- `~` my home directory

## Use Parameters and Options in Commands

Some commands have parameters or options to help you get more information or change the default behavior of those commands.

### Example

- `ls -l`: the `-l` is an option to `ls`. The l is for long.
- 通配符: `ls Documents/*.pdf`, `ls -l Documents/*.pdf`, `ls *.pdf`, `ls bear*`
- `--help`: to prompt help information for commands.

### Quiz Question

Let's say I change my mind and want to move the  `epub`  files back from  `Documents/Books`  to  `Documents`. How can I do this? My current working directory is my home directory, and  `Documents`  is inside that directory.  
Mark each answer that would work:

-   ~~`mv 'Documents/Books' Documents`~~
    
-   `mv Documents/Books/* Documents`
    
-   `cd Documents; mv Books/*.epub .`
    
-   `cd Documents/Books; mv * ..`
    
-   ~~`mv 'Documents/Books/*' Documents`~~ (**Note**: 通配符不能被引号括起来？？？)
    

SUBMIT

By the way, when you quote something in the shell, you always use straight quotes. This is what you'll get if you type into a terminal window. However, if you copy and paste from a web page or document, you should be really careful to make sure that it hasn't accidentally been written with  `“curly quotes”`. Curly quotes  _will not work_  in the shell.

Single quotes and double quotes do slightly different things in the shell. If you're unsure which to use, go for single quotes.

## Organizing Your Files (`mkdir`, `mv`)

With the Shell, you can use commands to organize your files into directories, move files, copy or remove the files.

### Commands

-   `mkdir`: [Make Directory] Creates directories.
-   `mv`: [Move] Move files from a directory to another.

## Downloading (`curl`)

### Commands

-   `curl`: [C URL >> See URL >> see a webpage] is used in command lines or scripts to transfer data. 

**Example**
1. We try to get http://google.com: `curl 'http://google.com'`. It's actually showing us some HTML that really wants us to go someplace else.
2. `curl -L 'http://google.com'` : means follow redirects (重定向) then we'll see the source code to the actual google.com homepage i.e. http://www.google.com/
3. `curl`  is very useful for downloading files or pages by URL: `curl -o [filename] -L [URL]`, e.g. `curl -o google.html -L 'http://google.com'`

## Viewing Files (`cat`, `less`)

With the Shell, you can use commands to view files, let's learn how to do it in this concept.

### Commands

-   `cat`: [Catenate, Concatenate] View file content.
-   `less`: View file content screen by screen.
	- press space/use arrow keys to scroll down
	- `b` to go back
	- `/` to search e.g. `/apple`
	- `q` to quit

## Removing Files or Directories (`rm`, `rmdir`)

With the Shell, you can use commands to remove files or directories.

### Commands

-   `rm`: [Remove] Delete files.
	- `rm -l`: I is for interactive, which will prompt you for every file it's going to remove
-   `rmdir`: [Remove Directory] Delete directories.

## Searching and Pipes (`grep`, `wc`)

With the Shell, you can use commands search content in files.

### Commands

-   `grep`: [Global Regular Expression Print] processes text line by line and prints any lines which match a specified pattern
	- E.g. 1 `grep shell dictionary.txt | less`: `grep` for "shell" in dictionary.txt and pipe it to `less`. (`|` is for pipe.)
	- E.g. 2 `curl https://tinyurl.com/zeyq9vc | grep fish`
	- E.g. 3 `grep -c ibo directory.txt`
-   `wc`: [Word Count] reads either standard input or a list of files and generates one or more of the following statistics: newline count, word count, and byte count
	- E.g. 1 `curl https://tinyurl.com/zeyq9vc | grep fish | wc -l` = `curl https://tinyurl.com/zeyq9vc | grep -c fish`

You can use  `grep`  for more than just matching words. There's a specific term for the patterns that  `grep`  lets you use.
Those patterns are called **Regular Expression**.

## Shell and Environment Variables

### Declaring Variables

- `variableName='value'`
- **Display two variables**: E.g. `echo $LOGNAME $PWD`

> **NOTE:** You can't put any spaces around the equal sign `=`.

### Referring to Variables

- `echo $variableNam`

### Two Kinds of Variables

- Shell Variables: They are just internal to the shell program itself.
	- E.g. `$LINES` `COLUMNS`
- Environment Variables: They are shared with programs that you run from within the shell.
	- E.g. `$PATH` The directories in the `$PATH` variable are separated by colons(:) and the shell searches them starting with the first one, and then proceeding to the right until it finds the command you entered.
		- `PATH=$PATH:/[directory name]`: e.g.`PATH=$PATH:/new/dir/here`
	- E.g. `$PWD`: The value of `$PWD` is the current working directory, same as what you'd see if you ran the pwd command. Every program you run on a Unix-like system has some working directory. It usually starts out as the directory you were in when you started that program. So the `PWD` variable is an **environment** variable. It's not just internal to the shell.


## Startup Files (.bash_profile)

The Shell isn't just a user interface, it's also a programming language.

File containing Shell commands are called Shell scripts.

### Aditional Resources

-   For a deeper understanding, you can read this  [post](https://friendly-101.readthedocs.io/en/latest/bashprofile.html)

### Instructor Notes

For users on Windows OS and using Git Bash you won't have a  **.bash_profile**  file. Don't worry I will explain to you how to create it.

1) If you're not in the home directory, change into it.
2) Create a file using  `touch .bashrc`
3) Then edit it with Vim  `vim .bashrc`
5) Save and close the file typing  `:wq`  and hit Enter.
6) Restart your Git Bash shell.
7) When you open your Git bash it will create a  `.bash_profile`  for you.

## Controlling the Shell Prompt (`PS1`)

[video]

Near the end of the video, there's a screenshot of the tool I used to construct the long and complex `$PS1` prompt. The tool is [http://bashrcgenerator.com](http://bashrcgenerator.com/) by Julien Ricard. Try it out!

- `man bash` to display manual for Bash-Shell
- `$PS1` E.g. `PS1='$ '`

## Aliases

### Commands

-   `alias`: Allows you to create short names for commands.
	- E.g. `ll='ls -la'`

## Keep Learning

### Shell resources

-   [The Bash Academy](http://www.bash.academy/)
-   [Bash Beginners Guide](http://www.tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/)
-   [Bash Programming HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Bash-Prog-Intro-HOWTO.html)
-   [Regexr — Learn Regular Expressions](http://regexr.com/)
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTQ4MzcyOTg5OV19
-->